---
layout: post
title: "The youth club - La Juventud"
author: billy_rick
modified:
comments: true
excerpt: "The youth club - La Juventud :speech_balloon:"
tags: []
---

Back when I was home, in Belize, I used to be involved with a lot of community work. One of my long-term projects was the making of a Futsal team made up of young kids who didn't have as much opportunities as the rest. So I started a search in my village, gathered a few of them, and started to teach them about the sport of Futsal. New to the sport, I aslo felt extremely challenged about training and leading a bunch of random kids. Nevertheless, I embarked on this journey with the help of my dear wife and my younger brothers. After our first tournament, where we surprisingly clinched a third place in a very tough competition, I received great news that I was coming to Taiwan to undertake a master's degree in Computer Science. For the kids, it was devastating -- the news that I would be leaving them as their coach. For me, it was a sad moment as I had developed a special bond with these kids.

When coming to Taiwan it was difficult to leave them but I made a promise to continue supporting the team and asked one of my brothers to manage the team. Almost 4 years after building this humble little team with tireless hours of preparing for every match as their coach and mentor, they are blossoming into something great. They have won back-to-back championships and are set to play internationally and represent their hometown. After seeing their development, both locally and abroad, it has come to my understanding that a lot is possible with devotion and humbleness no matter where you are.

I am very proud of them and this has been a dream come true for me. I understand some of them are being scouted and are keen to be part of bigger and more ambitious projects. Moreover, my brother was awarded with the position of head coach of our first National Futsal Team. As for me, my job here is done. I have opened doors for many kids that one day had no clue what they were going to be or do. I am deeply honored to be part of their growth and will continue to support them as much as I can. Everything is possible with devotion and integrity!