---
layout: post
title: "Let's welcome the criticism"
author: billy_rick
modified:
comments: true
excerpt: "Let's welcome the critisicm :speech_balloon:"
tags: []
---

As a teacher assistant for a research and presentation skills course, there are many things to observe and learn from. Things range from how to mentally prepare for a presentation to improving presentation aesthetics. 

One of the things I like to observe is the different behaviors portrayed by students from different ethnical and academic backgrounds. You can observe wrinkles of pain and veins of rage. It's all there and it's astonishigly beatiful and insightful. Rapid progress in the field of computer vision has enable scientist to capture humans fine grain movements and emotions. Such data is now being used to tell when a person is lying in real time or when a person is nervous or worried. 

Although not mentioned much in a class environment, there seems to be something that students are not open to. I am talking about criticsm. The research and presentation skills course is all about that. In this course, we criticize everything that has to do with research and presentation, which happens to be the skills you need most in order to defend and eventually graduate. 

There is much to say about criticim when one is on the other side but what's more interesting is what students or in this case the presenters are experiencing. I suspect that students don't like to be criticized and that could easily be observed from their facial expressions. They are in their right to dislike criticism, expecially if a lot of confidence is abundantly present. There is nothing wrong with it I suppose until the we start to talk about the benefits of being criticized. Bare in mind I am referring to constructive criticism and not just any criticism. In fact, no one likes to be corrected not even babies and that is an innate characteristic of any human being. From my experience, it can even feel discouraging at times. The point I am trying to get to is that criticism is not the worst thing that can happen to us. In fact, criticism is great! The more you welcome criticism the more you learn and the faster you can improve your skills. I have realized that people don't get criticized much and that could spell trouble. In my opinion, it means people fear to correct you when you make those mistakes -- even if they are minor. It also means that you will seldomly know when you make mistakes and be able to correct them in the future. Do you see anything wrong with that? There is a lot wrong with that. You should know that we are far from perfect so in reality you receive a ton of criticism and corrections through the day. Overall, one must welcome criticism but also one must let others feel or perceive that you are willing to be corrected. This applies in school and everywhere you go. For students, this is essential to keep a healthy learning curve.  
