An exam for how much you don't know

The idea of testing students in order to quantify how much they have learned is in some sense an injured tiger roaming in the wild. It is just a matter of time before it succumbs to its miserable injuries. It is a tradition that has lasted for years based on the assumption that everyone learns equally. In fact, we are all aware that the exact opposite is true. We don't learn in the same manner and at the same pace. We are wired differently and our perception varies on an exponential level. 

So why is it that we still use a traditional approach to test students? Is it because there is no other way to mold students. Such excuse is the easy way out for most complex matters. 

I have heard from many students that they are fed up of the old system. I have heard from professors that they are tired of preparing exams. And the trees are tired of being cut down for unnecessary purposes, I speak for them. 

This is one of the many prevalent issues in the 'exam paradigm'. The other aspect that bothers me is that some lecturers test how much a student doesn't know instead of testing how much the student knows. This opens a whole new discussion on the integrity of traditional examinations. We know what we know and as students our goal is to learn not to 'delearn.'

So this question arises: Why are we being tested on how much we don't know without changing the grading scheme? Start us at 100 and take us close to zero. The last time I heard of this approach was the last time I saw a well-established professor get kicked out of a university. But seriously, there must be alternatives to test the student's capacity; other options to qualify knowledge. 

Everything about an examination is painful and I am not sure why we have relied on it for so long. Its like a boy and his teddy bear -- inseparable bond beyond our understanding. It must go away, but it won't do so on its own. The next generation of educators must first fill in some big shoes, and then have tenacity to bring fort change in the way examinations are prepared. My only hope is that this change comes very soon. 


Post 2 - Learning by example:
How we can learn by being more applied. Use the following article to dig out ideas on why being applied is important? 
Then connect this problem with the books I am writing. 
